Hey, and welcome to this section on RESTful frameworks.
When starting to build web applications,
you'll quickly notice there's a lot to learn.
Creating everything from scratch can take a ton of time.
Luckily, there's ways to avoid doing everything from
scratch using what's known as a RESTful framework.
RESTful frameworks help facilitate quick creation of
robust applications by using things like code guidelines or libraries.
In this section, we'll define what exactly a web framework is,
when you would use one, and quickly introduce
a few frameworks that are available for Node.js.
So, let's get started.
To understand what a RESTful framework is,
let's breakdown the term a bit.
First, REST stands for Representational State Transfer.
It's a set of rules that defines guidelines based on the HTTP protocol.
By following these rules,
applications can know what to expect from each other,
and it allows them to interact and integrate more easily.
Frameworks that follow these rules are considered RESTful.
So, we know what RESTful is,
but what about frameworks?
A framework is a set of tools and guidelines
designed to support the development of web applications.
Basically, with a RESTful framework,
you're following guidelines made to create
applications that are based on the rules of the web.
These rules and guidelines are just meant to make it,
so that in the end, we can quickly create applications that can be easily managed.
There's a few reasons you might want to use a framework.
First of all, there's nothing in a framework that you couldn't technically do yourself.
It's just a knowledge base of code and
information built to help you work more effectively.
With that in mind, it's easy to understand why you might want to use one.
Frameworks help you build rapidly using out-of-the-box functionality.
They give you access to code that's been built and tested by a community of developers.
They also help extend functionality of your code
to integrate with even more tools and frameworks.
Before getting started with frameworks,
it helps to consider a few things.
Different frameworks have been made to solve
their own unique problems in their own unique ways.
This makes it important to understand what you're trying to accomplish,
as well as how framework might be able to help.
Sails, Express, Hapi, and others are all frameworks that are available to you in Node.js.
A lot of these are covered in a great blog post that I linked down below the video.
Throughout the lesson, we'll focus specifically on these three frameworks.
Coming up, we'll give a basic comparison between them,
how to get started, and then you'll build a basic application with each of them.
So, take some time to read the post.
When you're ready, I'll see you in the next section,
where we start to highlight the features of Express